Eye tracking in more complex tasks
As mentioned above eye tracking is not a very good interaction method to send out information, therefore it is difficult to integrate certain more complex function that is expected of today's electronic devices, such as writing and shortcuts. This section will explain multiple ways to solve those problems with only eye tracking and the effectives of those solutions.


Writing (ref to 18.)
In any modern electronic device that is not designed for one single task it is necessary to have writing input in one way or another. There are mainly two types of writing system, the first being direct typing, this is when a keyboard will be shown for the user to type. Direct typing is the main typing system for both touch device and computers. Before smartphone the mainly used typing system for mobile devices were multi tap, this is when a single button corresponds to multiple letters, the user will cycle through those letters by clicking the same button multiple times. 

To write with eye tracking with either of the typing method will be most likely implemented with dwell time as explained above, just in this case it will click on a keyboard or something similar. The problem is the huge fall off of efficiency, assuming dwell time is set to half a second, that means in order to write “hello” user need at least to use 2.5 seconds that is not take into account time to move from one letter to another. In contrast any somewhat experienced user will be able to use touch or keyboard to write 5 letters in less than a second.

It is clear for researchers that writing with eye tracker can not use the same typing system as before. The first one suggested is the use of a system MDITIM (minimum device independent text input method) (ref to 19.), originally it was designed to be used with trackpad, trackball, mouse, basically anything that can be moved in a pre designated 2D area. It was reasonable easy to adapt this for eye tracking, as the gaze will be used to move in that area, the only thing that needs to be replaced was a button which is replaced by dwell time.  MDITIM encodes all 26 letters into directions, such as a = NSW, b = SEW, c = ESW and so on, with 3 or 4 directions each to represent a letter. If a user for instance want to write “a”, user will first need to look at north section of the 2D area, after that continue to south and finally end at west area. The only problem is the system need to recognize interruption between letters as suggested by Isokoski.

In the report by Bee and André (ref to 18.), they were able to implement a writing system specific for eye tracking. This system kept all letters in the middle and divided into sections, with a circle outside. If a user for instance want to write “g”, user will first start in the middle of the inner circle, then move out cross the section that have the letter g, for then move to letter g in the outer circle, and then move into inner circle again (as shown in figure below). It might seem a bit complex, but the report showcase this method having vastly improved effectiveness compared to dwelltime or anything similar. Mainly because in this method there are no clicking involved, with minimal chance of typo. Problem with use of this method is training, most user are experienced in direct typing or multi tap, but very few have tried this system. Therefore the final result is unfortunately still far behind traditional type system. 
