Eye sight is one of the five senses of human body, and it is used to provide us with information in the form of images. Normally our eye gathers information by move and then fixate on a certain object, the movement phase between two fixation is called saccade. Saccade can be categorized in 4 different format by the intended goal, the first being visual saccade, a visual saccade is when a certain visual stimulus have happened, and the sight is moved towards that stimulus. Second being antisaccade, this is when the fixation is moved away from where it was. Third saccade is called Memory guided saccade, this is when the saccade is moved towards a certain point without any visual stimulus. The last saccade is called sequence of predictive saccade, this is when the sight is kept on a certain moving object. Saccades are used to keep certain object in focus on the fovea, or in the case of antisaccade to not keep the object in focus. Thus by being able to know where the saccade movement is headed, it is possible to predict the object of interest. When human eye are fixating the eye are actually not standing still, in reality the eyes are moving extremely fast around where the focus point is.
History of eye tracking
Researches related to eye tracking have been done in well over a century, with the earliest documentation being a french research named  Louis-Émile Javal from 1879 (ref 5.). He conducted his research by observing eye movements during reading, this was accomplished by employing afterimage and compare their displacement to real images, using this technique he was able to conclude that our eyes glide horizontally with no vertical deviation during reading. However he did notice the rapid movement of eyes between fixation, and it is widely believed that the term “Saccade” was first introduced here as an reference to rapid eye movements. Later writer, like Huey (1908) continued on the work of Javal and wrote the now classic book  The psychology and pedagogy of reading (1908). The first ever non-intrusive eye tracking was developed at early 20th century by Dodge and Cline (1901) (ref 6.). This technique involved the use of mirror to observe the movement of users cornea, while before them the normal technique consist of the use of an ivory cup attached to the user's cornea, and then attach a bristle on it.

The first ever recorded case of using eye tracking related to usability engineering(ref 8.) was done in 1950 by Fitts (ref 7.), they used eye tracking to find out the aircraft pilot's eye movement during an instrumental landing. 

At the 50s and 60s head mounted eye tracking device (ref 9.) was introduced, with this new device it is possible for the user to move his/her head freely during the test, and therefore leading to more research and testing options. During the 70s the eye tracking technology was mostly used in the field of psychology and physiology, it is used to find relations between eye movement and perceptual or cognitive process. During this periode computer interaction was not a big field for eye tracking, this is because at that time computer interaction was mostly text based, or through punched paper cards and tapes (ref 8.). In the 80s multiple market group start use eye tracking to see which ads are seen on physical objects, such as magazine or package, to determine which part of the object was actually seen (ref 12.). Previously techniques such as voice stress analysis and galvanic skin stress was used, to evaluate effectiveness of ads (both are a form of lie detection). Eye tracking continues to help researchers better understand how our eye and mind cooperate to distinguish images, problems and literature (ref 13). Until at the late 80s and early 90s when eye tracking began to be incorporated into print and screen design. EURO RSCG being one of the largest marketing and advertisement in the world, began to use eye tracking technology to study and analyze information from world wide web (ref 14.). Until this point it is assumed for most web designer to design web pages similar to traditional print and magazines. Since 2001 and until today Tobii technology have been developing eye tracking to allow disabled user to interact only using their eyes (ref 15.). Today eye tracking devices have become smaller and more mobile and some of them are implemented into glasses such as Tobii pro glasses. With the rise of smartphone and smartpad, and eye tracking become more mobile, already today is it possible to buy affordable personal eye tracking kit for smartpads from TheEyeTribe (ref 16.).d
